# Probabilistic Storm and Electric Utility Customer Outage Prediction 
Our probabilistic models comprise a storm model and a null model. Both models count of customer outages as a random variable. Whereas the former uses the Poisson Mixture Model (PMM) to model instances of the storm and non-storm events (two populations) in the outage count data by computing 
probability mass function (pmf) distributions from the population, the latter defines a null hypothesis that a given count of outage observation has no storm  and thus, estimate a lambda parameter that is true across each observation by fitting Poisson and negative binomial models. 
Specifically, the null models generate empirical p-values under the assumption that the null is true - that is, compute the probability of generating outages that are at least as extreme as our test statistics assuming our null is true. 

# Data Description
Customer outage data consists of a time series of customers without power reported every 15 minutes by utility companies across NYS counties. It was collected from 2015 to 2018. The weather data is an hourly multivariate time series of temperature, precipitation, gust, wind, and wind direction from NYS Mesonet stations. The data spans from 2016 to 2017. The customer outage data, weather data, and some leaf area index (LAI) data are merged and resampled hourly to form an hourly county-level multivariate time series within a period of two years (2016–2017), with customer outages as the target variable and weather time series as predictor variables.

We provide some code and a small sample data (Nassau County) for demonstrating the implementation of some of the statistical, machine learning, and neural network methods used in our work. The code is built in the Jupyter Notebook environment provided by Google and can be accessed directly in Google Colab. See the following [website](https://colab.research.google.com/) for instructions on using Google Colab.
